>> Nina Zakharenko: We're gonna
talk about testing in Python.
Tests are a cornerstone of
a solid Python program.
And thankfully, because of Python's
batteries included philosophy,
everything that we need to write unit
tests is included in the standard library.
So let's learn about
the basics of unit testing.
Unit testing is a method of testing
software methods where individual
functions are tested in an automatic
fashion to determine if they work
as expected.
These automated tests,
they help you find bugs quicker and
faster than not testing all,
or even manual testing.
And you can also write them alongside,
or before you write your functions, in
a style called test-driven development to
help your code be as bug free as possible.
There are three types of
automated tests that can be
performed at different
levels of abstraction.
Unit tests operate on a small
testable unit of code,
usually a function,
that does a single action or an operation.
Integration tests will check
to see if different units or
modules of code work together as a group.
And then functional tests
operate on units of
functionality to make sure that a specific
function of a software is working.
And it may involve a lot of unit tests or
whole systems working together.
>> Nina Zakharenko: For this class,
I'm just gonna show you
how to write unit tests.
But know that tests in the real
world are pretty essential for
your Python production programs.
They're very helpful because many
companies use a style of development
called CI/CD, or continuous
integration/continuous deployment.
That means a lot of unit tests,
integration tests,
maybe even a few functional tests,
which run automatically
before your code is merged in
with the deployed master branch.
If the tests fail, the deployment
can be stopped or not happen at all.
The developers can be notified.
And your broken code doesn't make
it into your production servers.
But this technique only works if
you write a lot of good tests.
It can be a bit complicated
to set this appropriately,
depending on which deployment
strategy you're using.
But it really saves you an enormous
amount of time in the long run and
helps your users to not see bugs.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So before we
talk about unit tests themselves,
Python comes with something
called the assert keyword.
And that kinda helps you do a little
bit of quick sanity checking.
An assertion just checks
a boolean value of a condition
to see if it's true or
false, if it matches.
If the assertion is true,
the program will continue.
If it's false, you'll see an assertion
error and your program will stop.
So let's say, I'm going back to my REPL,
>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's
say I have a number a.
I can type assert > 0.
And that passes just fine.
If I assert that a > 0,
I'm gonna get an assertion error.
Know that assertion errors are for
sanity checking.
They're not for production.
Simple checks, sanity checks,
they're not for validation.
Certainly not for
validating any type of user input or
determining if a file isn't found,
something like that.
These situations are better suited for
raising an actual exception.
And the other thing about assertions is
they're not guaranteed to be
run in your production code.
It's easy to turn off,
disable all assertions at run time,
just by starting up your Python
program with a particular flag.
So never rely on assertions
to run on production code.
Never use them for validation.
Never use them for user input validation.
Make sense?